Travel and Tourism

Fast image recognition can be benificial to security in airports, if this techonology can be used for facial recognition it can speed up processes such as verifying a passport belongs to someone and other factors that affect the flow of an airport. This tech can be implemented into existing security cameras in airports, if a dangerous person enters an airport security can be alerted immediatly which will reduce the risk of crime. Millions of people globally have jobs in airport security, costs of travel can be reduced if not so many jobs are needed, however the AI cannot always be as effective as a human eye is which may prevent this ever being used in airports. Implementing this into airports will also force people to lose their jobs. Biometric verification is already impacting our everyday lives and it assists with speeding up processes greatly, saving a lot of time especially in the tourism industry today. With the COVID-19 pandemic contactless verification and payment has become essential for everything, image recognition can reduce contact even further with the only ID needed being your own face, this will make travel feel more smooth and feel safer. This tech can also be used for translating text from an unknown language into your own language instantly from a menu or a road sign, this can help people travelling understand better where they are.

Gaming and Entertainment

Fast image recognition already has uses in gaming, particuarly MR (Mixed Reality), which primarily uses a phone camera that will add certain 3d assets to the real world though a phone. One of the most popular MR games, Young Conker, uses object recognition to detect furniture in the room that it is being played in. By detecting furniture, the game can create a unique playable area for each room. The game then uses the detected furniture as a playable area for Conker to jump on. Other areas that this is used in is creating players inside a game by detecting certain features on the users face and creating a character that looks almost identical to them. Other areas such as filters in social media apps which will detect a human face or even surrounding objects to place certain features. The tech is not always perfect and can mispalce certain things causing errors within games which can be annoying. Some games or apps may use the collected data for malicious intent?

Education and Learning

The first example that comes to mind with simple image recognition would be young children discovering the world, with a device they can learn about things in their home by pointing a camera to them, this can allow them to learn about the world on their own. It may also be helpful to detect animal species to a child, however it is not always accurate so it may need a human to verify the accuracy of the dectection which is a limitation, it also runs the risk of falsly educating children. Facial recognition can be used around schools to assist with security, identifying parents of children.

Transport and Navigation

The obvious example that comes to mind when thinking about transport in the case of image recognition is self driving cars. The tech can be used to detect moving objects in real time quickly, things such as people, animals, stop signs, other cars and traffic lights can all be detected. This can also be helpful in manual cars as the driver can be alerted to any stop signs and lights ahead, this may also prevent accidents on the road as moving cars can be detected in real time. Detecting a drivers current state can also assist with safety regarding tiredness and if a driver is fit to drive. Implementing this into cars could help to save lives and time, self driving cars can be used for taxi transport which will reduce costs but also can run the risk of putting many companies out of business. The tech is not perfect at the moment so it should not be used on the roads as it could be dangerous.

Medicine and Healthcare

In medicine image recognition can be used to spot harmful cancer cells in a pacients body faster than a human can, which can save peoples lives. It may not be perfectly accurate but doctors can check the accuracy and adjust the program to help it correctly identify the harmful cells. In other ways this AI can quickly scan a persons body and identify any harmful things on their skin and in xrays identify anything abnormal faster than a human which can save time in emergency rooms. Automating hospitals is key especially in the UK, waiting times can be extremely long and with people needing emergency care these waiting times just arent an option. Automatic diagnostic can help to reduce these waiting times and safe lives. Even a home diagnostic from your phone could help you to understand if you need to go to the hospital and can help doctors know exactly what to do when you come in for treatment, this may not be accurate and could cause error in the system.
